# Steam Game Recommender & Popularity Predictor

## Table of Contents
- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Packages Used](#packages-used)
- [Installation and Setup](#installation-and-setup)
- [Structure of the Project](#structure-of-the-project)
- [Cloning This Repository](#cloning-this-repository)
- [How to Run the Project](#how-to-run-the-project)
- [Contributors](#contributors)

## Introduction
This project is designed to provide two primary services:

1. Train a Machine Learning model for game popularity prediction.
2. Recommend games similar to a given Steam game, using and not using NLP techniques.

This project uses data from the Steam Store to perform these tasks. You can either train a Machine Learning model for game popularity prediction, or get recommendations for games similar to a game of your choice, with the option to include NLP-based recommendations in the Second Iteration.

## Packages Used
- **pandas**: For data manipulation and analysis.
- **numpy**: For numerical computation.
- **sklearn**: For machine learning tasks, including model training and prediction.
- **seaborn**: For data visualization.
- **matplotlib**: For creating different kinds of visualizations in Python.
- **fuzzywuzzy**: For string matching, used to find the best match for a game name from the user's input.
- **python-Levenshtein**: An optional speedup for fuzzywuzzy.
- **re**: For regular expression operations, critical for text processing.
- **string**: For string operations.
- **spacy**: For advanced NLP tasks.
- **TfidfVectorizer**: For converting a collection of raw documents to a matrix of TF-IDF features.

## Installation and Setup
First, make sure you have Python 3.11 installed on your system. You can download it from the official Python website [here](https://www.python.org/downloads/).

Next, you will need to install several Python libraries. You can do this by running the following commands in your terminal:
```bash
pip install pandas
pip install numpy
pip install sklearn
pip install seaborn
pip install matplotlib
pip install fuzzywuzzy
pip install python-Levenshtein
pip install spacy
```
To install **spacy**'s English language model, run:
```bash
python -m spacy download en_core_web_sm
```

After installing Python and the necessary libraries, clone the project repository to your local machine (see [Cloning This Repository](#cloning-this-repository) for more information).

## Structure of the Project
The project is structured into two main iterations, each with its own set of scripts and functionalities:
### First Iteration:
- ``main.py``: This is the main script that you will run to use the first iteration. It handles user interaction and calls the necessary functions based on user input.
- ``predict_popular.py``: This script contains the functionality for predicting a game's popularity. It includes its own data preprocessing, model training, and prediction functions.
- ``guess.py``: This script helps in finding the exact game name from the user's input.
- ``recommender.py``: This script contains the functionality for recommending similar games. It includes its own data preprocessing and recommendation functions.
- ``data``: This directory contains the data files used by the project.
- ``outputs``: This directory will be created when you run the program. It will contain the output files generated by the program.

### Second Iteration:
- ``clean.py``: Cleans and preprocesses the dataset with more advanced strategies.
- ``recommender.py``: Provides game recommendations using NLP techniques.
- ``data``: The cleaned dataset ready for NLP-based recommendations.

## Cloning This Repository
This repository contains large files and uses [Git Large File Storage (LFS)](https://git-lfs.com). To clone this repository, you need to have Git LFS installed.

Follow these steps:
1. Install Git LFS. This only needs to be done once per machine:

For macOS, use Homebrew:
```bash
brew install git-lfs
```
For Windows, download the installer from the [Git LFS GitHub page](https://git-lfs.com).

For Linux, the process depends on the specific distribution.

2. Set up Git LFS for your user account. This also only needs to be done once:
```bash
git lfs install
```
3. Now you're ready to clone the repository. You can clone it as you normally would:
```bash
git clone git@github.com:alinikan/GameRecommender.git
```
If you encounter any issues, Git LFS's GitHub page has [more detailed instructions and troubleshooting information](https://github.com/git-lfs/git-lfs/wiki/Tutorial).

## How to Run the Project
Navigate to the project directory in your terminal.
### To run the First Iteration:
```bash
cd "First Iteration"
python3 main.py
```
The script will then guide you through the process. It will first ask you what you want to do. You can choose to either get a game recommendation based on your input, train a Machine Learning model for game popularity prediction, analyze the original data, or exit the program.

If you choose to get a game recommendation, you will be prompted to enter the name of a game. The script will then recommend games that are similar to the game you entered.

If you choose to train a Machine Learning model for game popularity prediction, the script will train and show you the scores of a model that can predict a game's popularity based on its characteristics.
Note that the GridsearchCV hyperparameter tuning can be turned on by changing the constant ``ENABLE_PARAM_TUNING`` to true in ``predict_popular.py``.

If you choose to analyze the original data, the script will show you some visualizations of the data (in the outputs folder), and will also show you some other information about the data.
### To proceed with the Second Iteration:
First, ensure you're in the project's root directory, then:
```bash
cd "Second Iteration"
python3 clean.py
```
After you run `clean.py`, run this:
```bash
python3 recommender.py
```
These commands will clean your dataset and then run the advanced NLP-based game recommendation system.

## Contributors
- Ali Nikan
- Sina MohammadiNiyaki